[IMP] accounting: peppol (#6722)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/customer_invoices/electronic_invoicing.rst

between enterprises and governmental authorities. It is primarily used for electronic invoicing, and
its access points (connectors to the Peppol network) allow enterprises to exchange electronic
documents.
Odoo is now an **access point** and an :abbr:`SMP (Service Metadata Publisher)`,
enabling electronic invoicing transactions without the need to send invoices and
bills by email or post.

Configuration
-------------

:ref:`Install <general/install>` the :guilabel:`Peppol` module (`account_peppol`).

.. image:: electronic_invoicing/peppol-module.png
   :alt: Peppol module install

Registration
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings`, tick the
:guilabel:`Use PEPPOL Invoicing` checkbox, and fill in the following information:

- `Peppol EAS <https://ec.europa.eu/digital-building-blocks/wikis/display/DIGITAL/Code+lists/>`_.
  This is the Peppol Electronic Address Scheme and usually depends on your company's country.
  Odoo often prefills the most commonly used EAS code in your country.
  For example, the preferred EAS code for most companies in Belgium is 0208.

> - `Peppol Endpoint <https://docs.peppol.eu/edelivery/codelists/v8.7/Peppol%20Code%20Lists%20-%20Participant%20identifier%20schemes%20v8.7.html>`_.

Reviewer: @dbkosky @aliyatastemirova 
Let's assume we won't update the links. At some point, this will be deprecated. Can't we use this link instead and mention to open the participant identifiers? :) https://docs.peppol.eu/edelivery/codelists/

> - `Peppol Endpoint <https://docs.peppol.eu/edelivery/codelists/v8.7/Peppol%20Code%20Lists%20-%20Participant%20identifier%20schemes%20v8.7.html>`_.

Author: yes, that sounds good to me :slightly_smiling_face:

Configuration
-------------

:ref:`Install <general/install>` the :guilabel:`Peppol` module (`account_peppol`).

.. image:: electronic_invoicing/peppol-module.png
   :alt: Peppol module install

Registration

> ------------

Reviewer: I agree with Chiara, mostly because the installation of a module hardly requires a full section ^^
I'll change slightly the structure before the merge

> ------------

Author: @jcs-odoo probably, but I personally think "registration" is a more accurate word for this part of the documentation :slightly_smiling_face:

Finally, click on :guilabel:`Validate registration`.

.. note::
  If you are a developer and want to test Peppol, you can change the system
  parameter `account_peppol.edi.mode` to `test`. Then, your registration
  will occur on the test server.

  .. image:: electronic_invoicing/peppol-system-parameter.png
     :alt: peppol test mode

Now you can request a verification code to be sent to you
by clicking :guilabel:`Verify phone number`.

.. image:: electronic_invoicing/peppol-registration-verify.png
   :alt: phone validation request verification

A text message containing a code is sent to the phone number provided to finalize
the registration process.

.. image:: electronic_invoicing/phone-registration.png
   :alt: phone validation

Once you enter the code and click :guilabel:`Confirm`, you will see that your
registration is pending activation.

.. image:: electronic_invoicing/peppol-registration-pending.png
   :alt: pending application

It should be automatically activated within a day.
In the meantime, you can set up the default journal here to receive incoming
vendor bills.

.. tip::
  It is also possible to manually trigger the cron that checks the registration status,

>   by going to :menuselection:`Settings --> Technical --> Scheduled Actions --> PEPPOL\: update participant status`

Author: sorry, I am not sure what changed? :sweat_smile:

Then go to :menuselection:`Accounting tab --> Electronic Invoicing`, select the correct format,
and make sure their `Peppol EAS` code and the `Endpoint` are filled in.
Then, click :guilabel:`Verify`. If the partner exists on the network, their `Peppol endpoint validity`
will be set as Valid.

.. image:: electronic_invoicing/peppol-partner-verify.png
   :alt: verify partner registration

.. important::
   While Odoo prefills both the EAS code and the Endpoint number based on the information
   available for a partner, it is better to confirm directly with the partner,
   as these are essentially their contact details on the Peppol network.

Send invoices
-------------

When you are ready to send an invoice via Peppol network, simply click :guilabel:`Send & Print`
on the invoice form or select multiple invoices in the list view and go to
:menuselection:`Actions --> Send & Print`.

Make sure that both `BIS Billing 3.0` and `Send via PEPPOL` checkboxes are ticked.

.. image:: electronic_invoicing/peppol-send-print.png
   :alt: send peppol invoice

The invoices will be queued to be sent in a batch if you send several of them at once.

> Once they are sent via Peppol, the status will be changed to `Processing`.

Reviewer 2: The invoices get queued to be sent in a batch if you send several simultaneously. Once they are sent via Peppol, the status will be changed to :guilabel:`Processing`.

The status is changed to `Done` after they have been successfully delivered to the
partner's Access Point.

.. image:: electronic_invoicing/peppol-message-processing.png
   :alt: peppol message status

.. tip::
  By default, the Peppol status column is hidden on the Invoices list view.
  But you can choose to have it always displayed.

Receive vendor bills
--------------------

Once a day, a cron checks whether there are any new documents sent to you via the
Peppol network. These documents will be imported and the corresponding vendor bills

> will be created automatically in draft.

Reviewer 2: Once a day, a cron checks whether any new documents are sent via the Peppol network. These documents are imported, and the corresponding vendor bills get created automatically in draft.

Author: Maybe like this:

Once a day, a cron checks whether any new documents have been sent to you via the
Peppol network. These documents are imported, and the corresponding vendor bills
get created automatically in draft.

The cron checks whether new documents have been sent to the user specifically, not in general, so I think the wording should be more precise.

.. image:: electronic_invoicing/peppol-receive-bills.png
   :alt: peppol receive bills

FAQ

> ---

Reviewer 2: As this documentation is about general edis, I'd suggest we don't keep this FAQ section. Though if you have a link with general info about peppol registration or a relates subject please insert the link as a seealso.

  When testing Peppol, the system parameter `account_peppol.edi.mode` can be changed to `test`.
  Then, the registration will occur on the test server.

  .. image:: electronic_invoicing/peppol-system-parameter.png
     :alt: peppol test mode

Now you can request a verification code to be sent to you
by clicking :guilabel:`Verify phone number`.

.. image:: electronic_invoicing/peppol-registration-verify.png
   :alt: phone validation request verification

A text message containing a code is sent to the phone number provided to finalize
the registration process.

.. image:: electronic_invoicing/phone-registration.png
   :alt: phone validation

Once you enter the code and click :guilabel:`Confirm`, you will see that your
registration is pending activation.

.. image:: electronic_invoicing/peppol-registration-pending.png
   :alt: pending application

It should be automatically activated within a day. The default journal can be set to receive
incoming vendor bills.

.. tip::
  It is also possible to manually trigger the cron that checks the registration status,
  by going to :menuselection:`Settings --> Technical --> Scheduled Actions -->
  PEPPOL\: update participant status`.

> Your application status is going to be updated soon after you are

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your application status will be updated soon after you are
```

registered on the Peppol network.

.. image:: electronic_invoicing/peppol-registration-active.png
   :alt: active application

All invoices and vendor bills can now be sent directly using the Peppol network.

Partner verification
--------------------

Before sending an invoice to a partner using the Peppol network, it is necessary to verify
that they are also registered as a Peppol participant.

To do so, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Customers --> Customers` and
open the customer's form. Then go to :menuselection:`Accounting tab --> Electronic Invoicing`,
select the correct format, and make sure their :guilabel:`Peppol EAS code` and the
:guilabel:`Endpoint` are filled in. Then, click :guilabel:`Verify`.

> If the partner exists on the network, their Peppol endpoint validity will be set as Valid.

Reviewer 3: just a matter of personal preference 
```suggestion
If the partner exists on the network, their Peppol endpoint validity will be set to Valid.
```

.. image:: electronic_invoicing/peppol-partner-verify.png
   :alt: verify partner registration

.. important::
   While Odoo prefills both the EAS code and the Endpoint number based on the information

>    available for a partner, it is better to confirm directly with the partner.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   available for a partner, it is better to confirm these details directly with the partner.
```

Send invoices
-------------

Once ready to send an invoice via Peppol network, simply click :guilabel:`Send & Print`
on the invoice form or select multiple invoices in the list view and go to
:menuselection:`Actions --> Send & Print`.
Both :guilabel:`BIS Billing 3.0` and :guilabel:`Send via PEPPOL` checkboxes need to be ticked.

.. image:: electronic_invoicing/peppol-send-print.png
   :alt: send peppol invoice

The invoices get queued to be sent in a batch if you send several simultaneously.
Once they are sent via Peppol, the status will be changed to :guilabel:`Processing`.
The status is changed to `Done` after they have been successfully delivered to the
partner's Access Point.

.. image:: electronic_invoicing/peppol-message-processing.png
   :alt: peppol message status

.. tip::

>   By default, the Peppol status column is hidden on the Invoices list view.
>   But you can choose to have it always displayed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  By default, the Peppol status column is hidden on the Invoices list view.
  You can choose to have it displayed by selecting it from the optional columns, accessible from the top right corner of the the Invoices list view.
```

Receive vendor bills
--------------------

Once a day, a cron checks whether any new documents have been sent to you via the
Peppol network. These documents are imported, and the corresponding vendor bills
get created automatically in draft.

.. image:: electronic_invoicing/peppol-receive-bills.png
   :alt: peppol receive bills

FAQ
---

Do I need to pay to register as a Peppol participant in Odoo?
   No, Peppol registration is free and available in Community.

What documents can I send via Peppol?

>    At the moment, you can receive Customer Invoices and Credit notes and
>    receive Vendor Bills and Refunds.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   At the moment, you can send Customer Invoices and Credit Notes, and
   receive Vendor Bills and Refunds.
```
